To start, we want to define what popular culture really is. It involves all of the beliefs, attitudes, ideas, perspectives, images and other aspects within a given culture. It is made up of television shows, films, and news. The mass media is what makes popular culture known to all the people out there. In today’s age social power can have gigantic effects on popular culture because of the power of social media. Social media allows people from all over the world to come together and stand up for something they believe in. That allows for people to take notice and eventually it will be reflected and talked about in popular culture. Without social media popular culture would be nowhere near as prominent as it is today. All of these movements that come from social media are directly talked about in all different types of news outlets and other popular culture spaces. For example, recently across the world there were multiple violent attacks against Asian people. In response to this, people and even a lot of celebrities took to social media to use their platforms to voice their support to the Asian community. This was then talked about all over popular culture through which social power started it all. As soon as enough awareness is brought to life on a specific topic it will then be represented all over popular culture. That is what makes the use of social media so powerful that it has the ability to bring issues to light that was never possible before. Another example would be that because of social power there are a lot of shows that do not produce episodes anymore because of jokes that would not be accepted nowadays. That all comes from the influence of social power that was not present when these shows were initially created. An example of this would be some of Dr. Seuss’s books have been banned recently because they do not conform with what is acceptable today which sprouts from social power. What we see in our popular culture today is a direct result from what is viewed as “acceptable”. Those guidelines change as time goes on just like it has done from the past to now. Social power has been crucial to popular culture in today’s world. Then when you add that to social media it creates the content that appears in popular culture spaces of television, film, and news.
I decided to choose a commercial clip involving Thai life insurance but the message they leave in the clip is far more powerful than anything about that company. It is truly impressive and has a lot to unpack! It starts off by going through all of the simple but meaningful gestures this man goes through on a daily basis. This involves watering a forgotten plant, leaving bananas for an eldlerly women, giving money to a mom whose daughter is in need of education, feeding a stray dog, and also helping a woman move her food cart on the side of the street. These are all very simple gestures that most people would just walk past by without paying any attention to it. As the clip continues, there are certain people in the background who appear to be questioning his decisions as there are no direct benefits from what he is doing. At this point it feels like the man is only doing good for other people with nothing in return for himself. Except it is truly much deeper than that and the advertisement does an amazing job showing this in the end. It shows the plant fully healthy, the stray dog starts to follow him around, an awesome interaction between the elderly woman and him, and also the young girl who received enough money from him to finally go to school. What he does receive are emotions. He is able to gain these valuable interactions that are worth so much more than money. That is the most important part of this clip. The rewards he receives from these gestures make the world a better place which is something money can not do. That is up to us humans. There is no cost to being a nice person as long as your priorities are straight. The advertisement was able to portray the real meaning of life. It used all those gestures that the man went through on a daily basis to show how the relationships made from those actions are worth far more than anything money can buy. It helps display the true value of life. They wanted it to appear at first like the man was only wasting his time by going out of his way to help others but it was truly much deeper than that. The man ultimately was able to experience happiness, one of the few things money can't buy. All of the happiness that the man was able to experience was a direct result of the simple gestures that he routinely did. Those relationships formed are priceless and it was all from simple acts that everyone in this world is capable of. That is how I see and make sense of this amazing clip. No matter where you come from in the world there is no excuse not to help others. Even if you struggle with money or other things, there are always other ways possible to positively affect people’s lives. This advertisement does an exceptional job at conveying that and it motivates myself to want to have that same impact on people as the actor in the clip.